The President:
Over the past two years, we've won a number of battles to
defend the interests of the
middle class.
One of the most important
victories we achieved was the
passage of Wall Street Reform.
This was a bill designed to rein
in the secret deals and reckless
gambling that nearly brought
down the financial system.
It set new rules so that
taxpayers would never again be
on the hook for a bailout if a
big financial company went under.
And reform included the
strongest consumer protections
in history to put an end to a
lot of the hidden fees,
deceptive mortgages, and other
abusive practices used to tilt
the table against ordinary
people in their financial dealings.
It was a tough fight.
The special interests poured
millions into a lobbying
campaign to prevent us from
reforming the system --
a system that worked a lot
better for them than for middle
class families.
Some in the financial industry
were eager to protect a status
quo that basically allowed them
to play by their own rules --
and these interests held common
cause with Republican leaders in
Washington who were looking to
score a political victory in an
election year.
But their efforts failed, and we
succeeded in passing reform in
the hopes of ensuring that we
never again face a crisis like
the one we've been through -- a crisis that unleashed an
economic downturn as deep as any since the Great Depression.
Even today, we're still digging
out of the damage it unleashed
on our economy.
Millions of people are still out
of work.
Millions of families are still
hurting.
We're also seeing the
reverberations of this crisis
with the rise in foreclosures,
and recently we've seen problems
in foreclosure proceedings -- mistakes that have led to
disruptions in the housing markets.
This is only one more piece of
evidence as to why Wall Street
reform is so necessary.
In fact, as part of reform, a
new consumer watchdog is now
standing up.
It will have just one job -- looking out for ordinary
consumers in the financial system.
And this watchdog will have the
authority to guard against
unfair practices in mortgage
transactions and foreclosures.
Yet despite the importance of
this law,
and despite the terrible
economic dislocation caused by
the failures in our financial
system under the old rules,
top Republicans in Congress are
now beating the drum to repeal
all of these reforms and
consumer protections.
Recently, one of the Republican
leaders in the Senate said that
if Republicans take charge of
Congress,
repeal would be one of the first
orders of business.
And he joins the top Republican
in the House,
who actually called for the law
to be repealed even before it passed.
I think that would be a terrible
mistake.
Our economy depends on a
financial system in which
everyone competes on a level
playing field and everyone is
held to the same rules -- whether you're a big bank,
a small business owner, or a family looking to buy a house or
open a credit card.
And as we saw, without sound
oversight and common sense
protections for consumers, the
whole economy is put in jeopardy.
That doesn't serve Main Street,
that doesn't serve Wall Street;
that doesn't serve anyone.
And that's why I think it's so
important that we not take this
country backward -- that we don't go back to the broken
system we had before.
We've got to keep moving
forward.
Thanks.